Based on the statistics from WHO and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,here are the five most common infectious diseases.
According to current statistics, hepatitis B is the most common infectious disease in the world, affecting some 2 billion people -- that's more than one-quarter of the world's population. This disease, which is characterized by an inflammation of the liver that leads to jaundice, nausea, and fatigue, can lead to long-term complications such as cirrhosis of the liver or even liver cancer. The concern is primarily for those who carry the chronic form of the disease, which is estimated to be about 350 million people.Malaria, a mosquito-borne disease that tends to affect children the most in tropical and subtropical climates, affects more than 500 million people annually and results in anywhere between 1 million and 3 million deaths. Behind hepatitis B, it appears to be the second most-common infectious disease, and it certainly is one of the most deadly on an annual basis.
Malaria, a mosquito-borne disease that tends to affect children the most in tropical and subtropical climates, affects more than 500 million people annually and results in anywhere between 1 million and 3 million deaths. Behind hepatitis B, it appears to be the second most-common infectious disease, and it certainly is one of the most deadly on an annual basis.
Hepatitis C is a less common and less severe form of hepatitis, but it almost always develops into a chronic, not acute, condition, unlike hepatitis B. Although only 3 million to 4 million new cases are reported each year, some 180 million people worldwide suffer from this chronic condition, which can lead to liver cancer or cirrhosis of the liver over time.
It's at times like these that we curse mosquitoes, because a very specific type of mosquito (Aedes aegypti) is responsible for the transmission of dengue to approximately 50 million people each year. Dengue is most common in Africa and Asia and thankfully occurs in only mild to moderate forms, which can cause high fever, severe headaches, and joint and muscle pain, but rarely leads to the death of the infected patient.
As I mentioned previously, estimating new and ongoing cases for some of these diseases can be downright difficult, and perhaps none more so than tuberculosis. TB is caused by a bacteria found in the lungs that can cause chest pain and a bad cough, as well as lead to a number of other nasty side effects. According to WHO, it's also the second-leading global killer behind AIDS as a single infectious agent.The majority of TB-associated deaths (95%) occur in low- to middle-income countries where TB awareness and prevention simply aren't where they need to be. The good news is that TB death rates on a global basis are falling; however, there were still 8.6 million new cases of TB reported last year, and roughly one-third of the world's population carries a latent form of TB,
meaning they've been infected but aren't ill and can't transmit the disease yet. Asbestosis is a chronic lung disease caused by inhaling asbestos fibers.
Dry mouth, or xerostomia (zeer-o-STOE-me-uh), refers to a condition in which the salivary glands in your mouth don't make enough saliva to keep your mouth wet
The yips are involuntary wrist spasms that occur most commonly when golfers are trying to putt.
The Zika (ZEE-kuh) virus is most often spread to people through mosquito bites, primarily in tropical and subtropical areas of the world.
Ameloblastoma is a rare, noncancerous (benign) tumor that develops most often in the jaw near the molars.
Claudication is pain caused by too little blood flow to muscles during exercise.
A goiter is the irregular growth of the thyroid gland.
Esthesioneuroblastoma (es-thee-zee-o-noo-row-blas-TOE-muh) is a rare type of cancer that begins in the upper portion of the nasal cavity.
warts are small, grainy skin growths that occur most often on your fingers or hands.
A swollen knee occurs when excess fluid collects in or around your knee joint.
Whipple disease is a rare bacterial infection that most often affects your joints and digestive system.
An ACL injury is a tear or sprain of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) — one of the strong bands of tissue that help connect your thigh bone (femur) to your shinbone (tibia).
Acute coronary syndrome is a term used to describe a range of conditions associated with sudden, reduced blood flow to the heart.
Legionnaires' disease is a severe form of pneumonia — lung inflammation usually caused by infection.
Bruxism (BRUK-siz-um) is a condition in which you grind, gnash or clench your teeth.
A varicocele (VAR-ih-koe-seel) is an enlargement of the veins within the loose bag of skin that holds the testicles (scrotum).